[singing voice] Aniplex.
[wind howling]
[breathing heavily]
[blades clanging]
[Shirou] Now and then,
I think back
to that sword fight.
When I lost and found my answer
all at the same time.
But since then,
not a single thing has changed.
The memory's fading away
and I'm still me
and I suppose he's still him.
But even so,
neither of us really thought
the fight would change anything.
[blade clangs]
It's been two years since then.
I may get the answer
I'm looking for someday.
But it'll be a long time before
I find out what it is.
[skillet sizzling]
You're such a big help
in the mornings
and I appreciate it,
really,
but I already told you
you don't have
to make me breakfast.
You've gotta eat sometime,
and you're letting me live here.
Chipping in a little
is the least I can do.
So, uh, you're still not much
of a morning person, huh?
Thought you might get over that.
[Rin] A lady is allowed to have
a quirk or two, isn't she?
Keeps things interesting.
[cheery music]
♪♪ ♪♪
As for my schedule today,
I'm going to a special lecture
on cutting in mineralogy.
What about you?
I've just got fundamentals
classes all morning.
So we can walk together
at lunch.
Meet at the usual spot?
Tohsaka.
Hmm?
[Shirou] Nah, never mind.
[grunts]
What's up?
See someone you know?
No.
I've just passed him
in the hall a few times.
[Shirou] But that's not it.
It's finally hitting me
how strange this all is.
Why is an outsider like me
studying magic
at a place like this?
Knock it off.
You're not an outsider.
Don't you remember the rules
of the clock tower?
[Rin] When you're the heir
to a respected mage,
there's always a risk
that someone might try
to kill you,
and because of that,
a mage has the right
to be accompanies
by a follower or an apprentice
at all times.
It's for their own protection.
That's why you're enrolled here.
You're with me so hold your head
up high, okay?
I know.
And thanks a lot.
I owe you one.
Yeah, you do.
Getting you in here wasn't easy.
But you only have
a three year exemption.
So watch yourself, okay?
[Rin] People here have
to follow the school rules
but not the rules of
the world outside the school.
It might be a minor ritual
in the far east,
but you're the mage who survived
the Holy Grail War.
People remember that,
and some of them aren't going
to like you,
so if you let your guard down‐‐
Your guard's down!
Like hell it is!
[gasping]
Mm?
[gasps]
[giggles]
Shirou!
Lady Luvia.
You don't have
to be so formal now.
After all,
you're not on the clock
as my butler at the moment.
Miss Luvia will
be perfectly all right,
dear Shirou.
‐ [gasps]
‐ [shouts]
Hey, you can cool it
with the chummy act, okay?
Oh, miss Tohsaka, really.
We're classmates as well
as neighbors,
and I believe we even share
an apartment building.
[Luviagelita] And yet
my behavior strikes you
as inappropriate?
It's inappropriate all right.
Relax, Tohsaka.
There's nothing wrong
with trying to get along
with your classmates.
Anyway, we got a third floor
apartment thanks to her.
So we owe her one.
Oh, Shirou!
‐ Hey!
‐ [giggles]
[groans]
[both grunting]
[Rin] You think you're better
than me?
Oh, my goodness!
‐ Oh, my goodness!
‐ [gasps]
Okay, change in plans.
Our next class will be...
[Shirou groans]
[tense music]
Self defense.
The class in which one learns
to express oneself physically.
Now, Luviagelita Edelfelt,
the heir to the Edelfelt family,
will be more than happy
to demonstrate.
[grunts]
[both shouting]
[grunting]
Ah!
[booming]
[gasps, grunts]
[both grunting]
[groans]
[Luviagelita] Excellent!
I should call you Miss Gorilla
from now on!
[Rin] Keep talkin',
fancy pants!
It hurts, it hurts, it hurts!
What the hell
is that bitch's problem?
[groans]
I hit her right
in the medulla oblongata
and she still wouldn't go down.
‐ [Shirou groans]
‐ [Rin whimpers]
Luvia's not such a bad person
if you think about it.
[Rin] Where did you meet
that nightmare, anyway?
[Shirou] Well,
when we first got here,
she and I both got lost
on the same road.
[groans]
[both grunting]
Ow, ow, ow!
[Tohsaka groans]
‐ [Shirou winces]
‐ [Rin] Well,
I'll put her in her place soon.
So, what's your plan?
You got invited
to officially join
the Mage's Association, right?
[gasps]
Mm‐hmm.
[Rin] First, they evaluate
a mage's natural talents
and the color of his soul.
Then they register him,
making him a clock tower
affiliated mage.
It's okay.
Because you'd effectively be
in debt
to the Mage's Association,
your activities would
be limited,
but joining the association
isn't without its perks.
As a matter of fact,
most people would jump
at the opportunity.
Yeah, I guess you're right.
[magical whirring]
Becoming a clock tower member
and finally becoming
a full‐fledged mage...
Is the right decision.
[Shirou] But would that go
with what I believe in?
[birds chirping]
[groans]
Huh?
Oh, hey.
Sorry, guess I overslept.
I'll get breakfast going.
[Rin] Emiya.
So, wanna go somewhere with me?
[cheery music]
♪♪ ♪♪
[groans]
Where are we?
Glastonbury.
The grave of a certain king.
You remember how you told me
that day that you wished
you'd had the chance
to say a proper goodbye?
[Rin] Now's your chance.
I'll give you some time alone.
Hey, Saber.
Wish I'd known you were a king.
[Shirou] Thank you.
For starters,
I'm here.
I came to this country.
It's so nice here.
Yeah, it sure is.
But it's weird, you know?
I keep thinking about how
a long time ago
people used to live
in a place like this,
leading such different lives.
[Rin] Like they say,
it's a big ol' world.
It's been six months since
we got to England
and every day is still full
of surprises.
One after another,
don't you think?
[Shirou] Yeah, you're right.
An it's really shown me
how insignificant I am.
I was so proud that I'd become
a master
and fought with Saber
and survived the Holy Grail War.
I started thinking
I could do anything
I put my mind to.
But then the very next day,
I just didn't feel
like that anymore.
Yeah, I could tell,
'cause you didn't change
at all after the Grail War.
I think I get it now.
The Holy Grail War
was definitely
a major event for me,
but when I look
at the grand scheme of things,
it was just one piece
of a bigger puzzle.
[Shirou] A lot has stayed
the same since then,
but there have been a lot
of changes, too.
I don't know how much I matured
or anything,
but it just hit me how special
that battle really was.
‐ I've seen it for myself.
‐ [exhales]
Guess I'm the opposite.
I'm starting to think that
it really wasn't
anything special.
Not in the slightest.
[Rin] The Holy Grail War,
the clock tower,
lazy days like today,
things like that
aren't ever going to change.
You relied on Saber's support,
but when she was alive,
Saber herself actually relied
on the support
of the people
that came before her.
So you see,
we're all connected.
None of us are here
by our own strength.
We count on the hard work
of people in the past
to get us through.
The clock tower is steeped
in ancient traditions.
That's always on my mind
while I'm studying.
Like someone is always watching
and judging me.
It feels like‐‐like they want
to know what I'll contribute.
[Shirou] I see.
Guess it's only natural
they'd wanna know.
[bus engine rumbling]
[Issei] Hey, numb skull.
Wake up, will you?
[groaning]
[grunts]
Everyone's left
for the closing ceremony.
What are you,
playing hooky or something?
Hurry!
We don't wanna miss
the last assembly
of our second year!
[dramatic music]
♪♪ ♪♪
[Shirou] Hey, Issei.
How are things going
with the temple?
It's coming along.
In fact,
the rebuilding
of the main temple hall
is already underway.
[Issei] Everyone
is working hard on it.
It's times like these
that can be quite trying
for a head priest.
I'm barely even a novice myself,
but what they're doing
makes me realize
how grateful we should be
to our parishioners.
Great.
I'll try to come by
and help soon.
That reminds me.
How is Shinji doing?
He's been in the hospital
for quite a while now.
[Shirou] Oh, he's all right.
He'll be discharged
in a couple of days.
Sakura goes to visit him all
the time.
[Issei] Is that so?
Good for her,
keeping an eye
on her big brother.
[Shirou] Yeah.
She wouldn't let up
till he gave in.
Sakura's pretty tenacious.
He didn't have much say
about it, really.
[Issei] Huh.
I'm glad to hear that.
[knocking]
both: Hmm?
Ah!
I'm so glad the two
of you are still here!
[Taiga] It's hard to believe
it's been a month
since anyone's heard from him.
A new teacher will be coming
to replace him at the start
of the new semester.
We'll look after
Mr. Kuzuki's things.
They'll be safe at the temple.
Besides, that's where he first
turned up out of the blue.
[Issei] It seems fitting
that he left us the same way.
[Rin] Well, if it isn't
the student council president.
Patroling the campus already?
Or maybe you're checking in
on all the club rooms.
T‐‐Tohsaka!
[Rin] I know I sound like
a broken record,
but you really like
to stay on top of things, huh?
[scoffs]
I find these encounters
quite repetitive myself.
Would it kill you to come up
with a different jab now
and then?
Oh, I see!
You're deliberately
repeating yourself,
aren't you?
Yeah, I thought that
was obvious.
What, did you just figure
that out?
I knew you were uptight,
but wow.
You really are a lost cause,
huh?
Wh‐‐What's the meaning
of this, Emiya?
Don't tell me you've entered
into a relationship
with her of all people!
‐ [Shirou] I‐‐
‐ Bye‐bye, Emiya.
Come get me when you're done.
I'll wait in my classroom
until you're ready.
Wait, what's happening?
‐ [Ayako] Hey!
‐ [gasps]
You're a hard man to find,
Mr. President.
Mitsuzuri.
What do you want?
Maybe you can clear something up
for me.
What in the hell did you do
to the budget?
I'd like to know why my club
just had its funding cut!
Archery club isn't
the only one.
[Issei] All club expenditures
were subject to the same review.
[Ayako] I don't buy that
for a second.
Try again.
I wanna know what
the hell you were thinking!
[Rin] So Emiya,
were you ever in the track club?
[Shirou] Track?
No.
I've always been in archery.
Never really had time for both.
Oh, I see.
Sorry, guess my mind
was wandering a little.
Looking at the sunset
just got me thinking.
It's just,
time has really flown by.
The Holy Grail War is over now,
you signed on as my apprentice,
and it's only been a month.
At this rate,
a year will be over
before you know it.
And when that happens,
we'll leave this school
for the last time.
[Rin] So do you have any plans
for after graduation?
You gonna follow
in your father's footsteps?
[Shirou] Yeah, probably.
Why do you ask?
Curious.
I'll be going to London
when I leave here.
I got a letter of recommendation
from the Mage's Association.
You're going
to the Mage's Association
in London?
The clock tower place?
They picked me to be
the representative
of the Tohsaka family.
And they said that I'm allowed
to bring an apprentice with me
if I want to.
[Shirou]
What are you getting at?
[giggles]
Well...
Do you want to go
with me, Shirou?
Ah, dammit.
Should have known you're
taking advantage of me again.
[Rin] What's that?
Uh, nothing.
This is a big deal,
so give it to me straight, okay?
Look me right in the eye
and say you'll come.
Ah, knock it off.
You already know I will.
Great.
I mean,
we work so well together.
Am I right?
I promise I won't let up until
I turn you into a proper mage.
So I sure hope you're ready.
You're going
to be so much happier
when you're finally the man
I help shape you into.
Just you wait and see, Shirou.
Thanks for taking me there.
It means a lot.
[dramatic music]
♪♪ ♪♪
Excuse me.
[Waver] You are the one who came
from Japan to study, correct?
No, that'd be Tohsaka.
Tohsaka I know.
You're the student I
was inquiring after.
You're from Fuyuki, Japan,
yes?
[Waver] Judging by your looks,
you don't have the makings
of a mage.
My guess is that you're
an outsider
who was caught up in the ritual
and missed your chance
to escape.
Now, tell me something.
After surviving a war
of that magnitude,
what made you decide
to come to the clock tower?
Why have you chosen
to study magic?
That's a good question.
[Shirou] I've learned a lot here
but in a lot of ways
I feel like I"m in over my head.
I still don't wanna give up
on my beliefs, though.
I wanna dedicate my life
to seeing them come true.
[Waver] Meaning what?
Well,
I know it might sound dumb,
but I don't care.
[Shirou] There's something
I wanna be.
It's called a hero of justice.
I understand.
It's a foolish endeavor,
but not without its merits.
[Waver] A hero of justice.
I fear your dream is too large
for this place to contain.
[gasping]
[Shirou] Tohsaka.
Did we have dinner plans
I forgot about?
[giggles]
I was just waiting for you.
Huh?
So then,
have you made
a decision about joining?
Uh, I said no.
Oh.
[Shirou] Wait a minute.
You're not angry?
Well, I can't say
I'm too surprised.
I guess if you're not going
to join the Mage's Association,
I've only got three more years
before they throw me out
on the street.
But there's no law that says
you have to...
[chuckles]
Are you okay with this?
It's all I've been thinking
about lately.
I just don't think I'll ever
be able to live any other way.
Even if I know it's not
the right path for me,
I can't change now.
It's just like he said.
He and I might share
the same fate.
[Rin] Can't argue
with him there.
With as many mistakes
as you make,
I think he's got a point.
You're walking
in the same direction down
the path he left for you.
But still,
how far you can go may be
a lot different from him.
All that matters
is where you land in the end
and how far you can go
from there.
Even if you find yourself
at the same destination someday,
it doesn't have to be the end.
Just keep moving forward,
and before you know it,
I know you'll find
what you're looking for.
Maybe so.
I hope that's the way
it turns out.
But it's up to me
to make it happen.
‐ [Rin] Don't worry.
‐ [gasps]
Think about it.
You've had the answer all along,
haven't you?
Wait, are you sure?
[Shirou] I mean,
I know how important
the clock tower is to you.
[Rin] Oh, I'll be fine.
I'll probably settle
down there one of these days.
For now I've got some things
to work out of my system.
There's a lot of world left
to experience.
I see.
My turn to drag you around
for a change.
[Rin] Yep.
But all that's still
a long way off.
Either way,
having a good time
and traveling,
even suffering,
it all leads
to our happily ever after.
That's what our future holds.
I know it.
[dramatic piano music]
♪♪ ♪♪
[sweeping dramatic music]
[Archer] The boy once said,
"I don't want
to see people dying."
"Could it be possible,"
he wondered,
"to save everyone
in the entire world
from suffering?"
But what he was really trying
to eliminate was himself.
And he took up his sword
for what he believed.
When the battle ended,
he learned his path
was no longer laid out for him.
However, he found his answer.
He lost count of how many times
he'd wished he could go back
and do it all over.
Emiya will likely go on cursing
this outcome until
the end of his days.
But in spite of it all,
one thing is certain.
I was never wrong.